\documentclass[../paper.tex]{subfiles}

\begin{document}

As the amount of digital data is ever increasing for all companies, the effort
to manage it grows exponentially. To structure that data, most business have
the option of implementing a data warehouse. Although there are many existing
DWH implementations, only some are actually applicable to the setting of a
smaller business. This is due to the fact that SMEs tend to lack certain
expertise and have a limited budget as well as a small amount of spare
employees for IT. This further aggravates the use of many traditional DWH
solutions as they are tailored towards big enterprises and include many
features which are not relevant for an SME.~\cite{Raj2016}

Furthermore, on-premise data warehouse systems require a certain level of
storage and computing power to fully utilise the advantages of the software.
Those solutions often have a high up-front cost, making them a less ideal
solution for an SME. Therefore, many vendors of DWH solutions offer their
product as a cloud-based subscription service, which is well received by
customers.~\cite{Agostino2013}

Cloud-based data warehouses enable smaller business to fully utilise all needed
features of the DWH technology, as they require considerably less time and
expertise to set up and configure. Additionally, there is no up-front cost as
there is no local infrastructure required. Many popular vendors also offer a
pay-as-you-go subscription, which gives customers flexibility to try out their
system for a very low fee. The reduction in cost and a static monthly payment
model is the main reason why smaller companies can even consider implementing
a DWH in their business process, as this was previously the main
barrier.~\cite{Fernandes2016}

Business intelligence (BI) is a systematic approach that compromises a set of
tools and guidelines which helps a business analyse its operations and report
on different statistics. Systems that offer BI features use a data warehouse
for analytical queries. While this is a common approach within global
enterprises for years, SMEs rarely adopt any form of business intelligence
due to lack of expertise and capabilities to deploy such systems for
it.~\cite{Golfarelli2004}

SMEs therefore require a simple and streamlined approach as they are not able
to analytically deal with big data in their existing systems. With the addition
of cloud computing, SMEs no longer need complex hardware and software systems,
which have high maintenance costs, to deal with big data. Vajjhala and
Ramollari argue that cloud services also encapsulate some of the complexity,
giving SMEs the chance the acquire flexible computing power for data warehouses
to use business intelligence tools.~\cite{Vajjhala2016}

\end{document}
